webhook docs (PR from TinaCMS) (#3640)
tinacms/tina.io: content/docs/tina-cloud/webhooks.mdx

---
title: Webhooks
last_edited: '2025-04-24T06:19:07.233Z'
next: ''
previous: content/docs/drafts/drafts-fields.mdx
---

> If you need to automate tasks or trigger external processes when your content
> is updated, you can leverage the new webhooks feature. When content is pushed
> or modified to your desired branch, TinaCMS can send a notification to your own
> server. This payload includes the paths of the modified files, allowing you to
> automatically trigger actions like rebuilding your site or populating a search
> index, creating powerful, event-driven workflows.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to automate tasks or trigger external processes when your content
is updated, you can leverage the webhooks feature. When content is pushed
or modified to a specific branch, TinaCMS sends a notification to your
server. The payload includes the paths of the modified files, enabling event driven actions like rebuilding your site or populating a search index.

```

## Setting Up

Webhooks can be created via the "Webhooks" tab within a project.

![webhook dashboard](/img/docs/tina-cloud/webhooks/webhooks-dashboard.png)

To create a webhook, follow these steps:

> 1. Go to a project.
> 2. Go to the "Webhooks" tab within your project.
> 3. Press the "Add Webhook" button.
> 4. Give your webhook a name, server url, branches you'd like the webhook to
> fire on, and additional headers to be sent to the your server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the project.
2. Click Webhooks | Add Webhook
3. Enter a name, server URL, target branches and additional headers to be sent to the your server.
```

# Webhook Logs

Webhook logs can be found within **Webhooks | Logs**.

![webhook logs](/img/docs/tina-cloud/webhooks/webhook-logs.png)

> The logs include the following information:
> - **Date**: The date and time the webhook request was sent.
> - **Status**: The status code of the webhook request.
> - **Request**: The webhook request payload. More information on its format can
>   be found below under the "Requests" header.
> - **Response**: The response body from your server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each log entry includes:
- **Date**: Timestamp of the webhook request.
- **Status**: HTTP status code returned.
- **Request**: Payload sent (see Requests)
- **Response**: Body returned from your server.
```
